---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Igniting the fire
date: 2015-08-26
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

It seems like for most of the students majoring in Computer Science, they have a love for video games. I'm not any different. It's one of the main reasons why I chose the major. It's one of the reasons why I'm interested in software engineering. It's the reason why I first started using a computer, and learning how to operate one. Now, I'm somewhat hesitant to tell you what my first experience with a computer was, because then you're going to start speculating on how old I actually am. So instead of just revealing that interesting tidbit of information, I'll tell you my story and you can just fill in the blanks for yourself.

When I was around 8 or 9 years old, my dad thought it was about time for us to own a computer. But, he also didn't want to spend a lot of money either. That's how me and my brothers ended up with an old beatup Commodore 64, and a large collection of floppy discs. Naturally, our only motivation in using the computer was to play video games on it. Unfortunately though, you couldn't just insert a floppy disk like it was a video game cartridge and turn the thing on. You had to type in stuff to get it to work, very specific stuff actually and you had to make sure you did it in the right order. Going through all the floppy discs and finding what was inside, was like opening up a pack of cards. Most of the time you got crap, but every once in a while there was something of value. The Commodore 64 didn't last very long, but I do have fond memories playing games on it(some of which was not meant for children). It wasn't until much later that I started using a computer again, and it was once again in order to play video games.

I realize software engineering isn't all just fun and games, but my passion for video games is still the driving force in my desire to learn. There are tons of things that I want to learn and improve about myself. I still feel completely new at programming. I don't have much confidence in my skills in coding, or my fluency in any language. I want to be more familiar with coding in general. I don't want to have to look online for answers all the time. The majority of my time spent coding has been done individually. The one group projects I have had, ended up with my partners not contributing and leaving me to do everything. I look forward to working together on projects, as I believe that I can learn a lot from my peers. Mainly, I want to build a good foundation and understanding for software engineering. So that in the future, I can use it to create games for people to enjoy, just like I do.
