---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Smart vs. Dumb
date: 2017-01-26
labels:
  - Stack Overflow
  - Learning
  - Asking Questions
---

When stuck on a problem most people turn to others for help or advice. The same goes for software engineering. Sometimes this
might mean asking your classmates or your co-worker, other times you might just use google or e-mail your professor. Whichever way 
you go, the answers you receive depend on how you ask the question just as much as who you ask. Asking nicely, or being clear with 
what you're looking for can go a long way in getting your problem solved. In fact, asking questions in a "smarter" way may make
finding your answer that much more likely. Figuring out how to ask smart questions is a lot easier when you have a guild like
<a href="http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html">Eric Raymond's</a>.

This first example demonstrates many qualities of a <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/41883928/php-style-background-image-breaking-my-javascript-in-fun-new-ways">smart, well written question</a>. 

First off the header in her questions is a decent start to a smart question, but once you get into the actual post. Her writing 
is clear and her spelling is correct. She was precise about her problem and provided as much relevant information as possible. 
She even demonstrated code to recreate the problem. She also reveals that she has spent time working on the problem herself and 
provided information on her own attempts to find a solution. 

And here we have an <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/41883945/ajax-is-not-working-for-me-can-someone-please-tell-me-
what-i-am-doing-wrong">example of a not so smart question</a>.

This question started off badly. The header states the problem in the most vaguest way possible. When you start to read his 
post, you find that he admit's to knowing that there are millions of examples out there, but still can't bother to look for the 
answer by himself. He insists that you just spoonfeed the answer directly to him. He doesn't describe what he is trying to do 
in clear manner, and even worse he doesn't even bother to explain what isn't working exactly. He just assumes that if he copy 
pastes his code for someone else to read, they will be able to figure it out on their own. 

Looking at both questions, I find that it's almost impossible to ask the perfect question. Even the smart example has flaws. 
I also noticed that with the dumb question, there were still people trying to help him(albeit there were more mean responses
as well). It makes me think that there is no right or wrong way to ask a question, although the amount of effort you put in to 
asking a question does usually relate to the quality of your answer. Being able to ask smart questions, just like coding takes 
dedication, time, and experience. Mostly, I learned trying to solve all your problems by yourself is an impossible task. 
Sometimes you need just a little nudge in the right direction, and other times you need a big hefty shove. Asking for help is a 
style all in itself. But the ones who get what they are looking for, are usually the smart software engineers that put in the 
time and effort when they make their inquiries.
